docs(sdk): Make the client event pipeline the authoritative step ordering (#18922)
getsentry/sentry-docs: develop-docs/sdk/foundations/client/index.mdx

title: Client
description: The SDK component responsible for event creation, integration management, and transport dispatch.
spec_id: sdk/foundations/client
spec_version: 3.0.0
spec_status: stable
spec_depends_on:
  - id: sdk/foundations/state-management/scopes
    version: ">=1.0.0"
  - id: sdk/foundations/transport/envelopes
    version: ">=1.0.0"
spec_changelog:
  - version: 3.0.0
    date: 2026-08-03

>     summary: Breaking — event pipeline is now the authoritative ordering; sampling runs after before_send and the session update for SDKs that support sessions; added ignored exception types and session update steps

Reviewer: l: this sounds a bit clankered (sorry in case it wasn't). I think we can shorten it a bit:

```suggestion
    summary: Breaking: Sampling runs after before_send and the session update for SDKs that support sessions; added ignored exception types and session update steps
```

</SpecSection>

> <SpecSection id="event-pipeline" status="stable" since="3.0.0">

Author: Keeping `since="3.0.0"` here — the convention is the opposite of this.

From [`spec-lifecycle.mdx`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/blob/master/develop-docs/sdk/getting-started/standards/spec-lifecycle.mdx):

> A section's `since` **MUST** be the `spec_version` in which that section's current requirements were introduced. Bump it only when the section's requirements actually change.

So `since` tracks the current requirements, not when the section first appeared. Reordering the mandated pipeline steps does change this section's requirements, so bumping it is what the rule prescribes.

The surrounding code agrees: `specSection.tsx` renders the value as "specified since {since}", and `client-resolution` already sits at `since="2.0.0"` in this same file, which started at 1.0.0. The inverse case is visible in the sessions spec, where `session-update-filtering` stayed at `1.4.0` when 1.4.1 only clarified it.

### Event Pipeline

When `captureEvent`, `captureException`, or `captureMessage` is called, the Client processes the event through the following pipeline. The event **MAY** be discarded at any stage, stopping further processing.

1. **Disabled check**: If the SDK is disabled (no transport / no DSN), discard immediately.
2. **Ignored exception types**: Discard events matching [`ignoreErrors`](/sdk/foundations/client/configuration/#event-sampling) (client report reason: `event_processor`).

> 3. **Scope application**: Obtain the current, isolation, and global scopes. Merge scope data onto the event in the [defined order](/sdk/foundations/state-management/scopes/#applying-scope-data-to-events). Invoke scoped event processors first, then global event processors, each in registration order. Any processor returning `null` discards the event (client report reason: `event_processor`).

Reviewer: m: The ordering here might still depend a bit on SDK implementation. In JS, `ignoreErrors` is added via an event processor on client-level. I think it's good that we call it out in this pipeline but maybe we can merge these two steps? In general, I think there are 3 things going on in these two steps and we could probably point this out more clearly: 

- applying scope data onto the event
- applying event processors in the written down order
- applying `ignoreErrors` (which might very well just be an event processor)
 
technically, the ordering here has influence on the behaviour. In JS, we apply data before we apply event processors which I think makes sense but implementations might vary.

Author: thx! updated it, lmk what you think

4. **`before_send` hook**: Invoke the user-configured callback. Returning `null` discards the event (client report reason: `before_send`). This hook **MUST** only apply to error events. For transactions, use `before_send_transaction`. For logs, use `before_send_log`. See [Hooks](/sdk/foundations/client/hooks/) for details.

> 5. **Session update**: SDKs that implement [Sessions](/sdk/telemetry/sessions/) **MUST** update the current session here — incrementing its `errors` count or setting its status. SDKs without session support skip this step.

Reviewer: l:
```suggestion
5. **Session update**: SDKs that implement [Sessions](/sdk/telemetry/sessions/) **MUST** update the current session by incrementing its `errors` count or setting the appropriate status. SDKs without session support skip this step.
```
